# Release v1.23.0
## Changelog since v1.22.0

### Changes need action

* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Support to share a cloud load balancer between different Services. The load balancer can be either created by other Services or outside the Kubernetes cluster. As the load balancer doesn't relate to a dedicated Service anymore, any scripts relying on that relationship previously need to change to use the load balancer tags instead. Action required. (#1648, @lingxiankong)

### Other notable changes

* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Support setting externalTrafficPolicy to Local so that traffic is only sent to the worker nodes which have the service pods. (#1720, @databus23)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Added support for InitContainer in the OCCM chart (#1706, @wirespecter)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Make volume mounts of openstack-cloud-controller-manager Helm Chart configurable (#1678, @jacksgt)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] \nip.io hack\ can now use different dns suffix by configuring `ingress-hostname-suffix` to config file (#1689, @zetaab)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Add clusterID Helm chart value (#1741, @gman0)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Added support to mount a volume with XFS filesystem and its restored snapshot on the same node. (#1614, @jsafrane)
* [manila-csi-plugin] NodeGetVolumeStats is now forwarded to the partner plugin if it supports GET_VOLUME_STATS Node Service capability. (#1737, @gman0)
* [octavia-ingress-controller] Add support for whitelist-source-range annotation. (#1704, @hedinasr)
* [Charts] Added logVerbosityLevel variable to cinder-csi-plugin, manila-csi-plugin and openstack-controller-manager Helm charts (#1679, @gman0)
* Base images updated to alpine 3.15 (#1729, @zetaab)