# Release v1.21.0
## Changelog since v1.20.0

### Other notable changes

* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Added support for creating TLS terminated loadbalancers. (#1474, @hamzazafar)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Added Helm Chart for OpenStack Cloud Controller Manager. (#1458, @eumel8)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Fixed the broken header issue when accessing the load balancer service with PROXY protocol enabled from within the cluster. (#1449, @lingxiankong)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Added support to use subnet name pattern and tag filtering for creating floating IP for the load balancer. (#1375, @mandelsoft)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Use fully popuplated loadbalancer OpenStack API call for initial service creation (#1365, @notandy)
* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Allow load balancer providers other than 'amphora' and 'octavia'. (#1357, @notandy)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Support to inject PV/PVC information in Cinder volume properties. (#1492, @databus23)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Support custom StorageClass in Helm Chart. (#1455, @eumel8)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Sanitize secrets in the request, and therefore credentials are not shown in the logs anymore. (#1471, @Fedosin)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Support Snapshot Controller deployment in Helm Chart. (#1457, @eumel8)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Fixed the issue where the file system size stays the same when expanding the volume. (#1434, @Fedosin)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Fixed the issue that the ephemeral inline volume is yet available when attaching to the node. (#1429, @ramineni)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Fixed a leak causing high memory consumption (#1473, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Updated CSIDriver object to v1 (#1358, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] support `--cluster-id` argument to get the the CO's identifier. (#1459, @Fedosin)
* [octavia-ingress-controller] Fixed the issue that pools and l7 policies are removed no matter how the Ingress is changed. (#1418, @lingxiankong)
* [magnum-auto-healer] Fixed an issue that k8s master node repair failed when the node is boot from volume. (#1447, @openstacker)