# Release v1.22.0
## Changelog since v1.21.0

### Changes need action

N/A

### Other notable changes

* [openstack-cloud-controller-manager] Recreate load balancer pool if the protocol changed based on the service definition. (#1504, @chrischdi)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Add metadata for creating snapshot if `--extra-create-metadata` is enabled in external-snapshotter. (#1575, @jichenjc)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Fixed the issue when expanding volume that is created from a snapshot or another volume. (#1563, @alibo)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Append cluster ID (value of `--cluster`) to metadata of snapshots in the cloud when creating VolumeSnapshot. (#1544, @Fedosin)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] The --cloud-config option may now be given multiple times. Multiple configuration files will be merged, with later configuration files taking precedence. (#1476, @mdbooth)
* [cinder-csi-plugin] Deprecate `--node-id` option . Its value is ignored by the driver. (#1565, @ramineni)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Added support for snapshot and snapshot restore of CephFS shares where backends support it (#1592, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Add cephfs-kernelMountOptions and cephfs-fuseMountOptions volume parameters (#1605, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Add support for online volume expansion (#1579, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Added cephfs-clientID volume/StorageClass parameter (#1519, @gman0)
* [manila-csi-plugin] Helm: Added optional clusterID value (#1516, @gman0)
* [magnum-auto-healer] Fix duplicated auto-healing actions and the default health check period is changed from 30s to 60s. (#1530, @openstacker)